---
layout: post
comments: true
use_math: true
title:  "Cosets"
date:   2023-09-30
categories: [math]
---

This time we look around the concept about "coset"

## Theorem 

Let $H$ be a subgroup of $G$. Let the relation ~$_L$ be defined on $G$ by

a ~$_L$ b if and only if $a^{-1}b \in H$

Let ~$_R$ be defined by 

a ~$_R$ b if and only if $ab^{-1} \in H$


Then ~$_L$ and ~$_R$ are both equivalence relations on $G$.


proof) Trivial.. lol


<br>

## Main Idea

Equivalence relation creates a parition of set.



<br>


## Definition: Cosets 


Let $H$ be a subgroup of a group $G$. The subset $aH = \{ah\mid h \in H\}$ of $G$ is the $left \; coset$ of $H$ containing $a$.

While the subset $Ha = \{ha | h \in H \}$ is the $right \; coset$ of $H$ containing $a$.


<br>


So it makes a parition from a subgroup.


## $|gH| = |H|$

Every coset(left or right) of a subgroup $H$ of a group $G$ has the same number of elements as $H$.

<br>

$proof$


We need to show there exists a map which is one-to-one and onto.

Let $\phi(h) = gh$ for each $h \in H$.

1. This map is onto $gH$ by the definition of $gH$ as $\{gh \mid h \in H \}$

<br>

2. Suppose $\phi(h_1) = \phi(h_2)$ for $h_1$ and $h_2$ in $H$.

    Then $gh_1 = gh_2$ and by the cancellation law in the group $G$, 
    we have $h_1 = h_2$. Thus $\phi$ is one to one.




<br>



## Theorem of Lagrange

Let $H$ be a subgroup of a finite group $G$. Then the order of $H$ is a divisor of the order of $G$.


$proof$ 

Let $n$ be the order of $G$, and let $H$ have order $m$. The statement above shows that every coset of $H$ also has $m$ elements. 

Let $r$ be the number of cells in the partition of $G$ into left cosets of $H$. Then $n = rm$, so $m$ is a divisor of $n$.



## Corollary: Every group of prime order is cyclic.

$proof$

Let $G$ be of prime order $p$, and let $a$ be an element of $G$ different from the identity. Then the cyclic subgroup <$a$> of $G$ generated by $a$ has at least two elements, $a$ and $e$. 

But by Theorem of Lagrange, the order $m \ge 2$ of <$a$> must divide the prime $p$.

Thus we must have $m=p$ and <$a$> = $G$, so $G$ is cyclic.


<br>

## Definition: Index of $H$ in $G$

Let $H$ be a subgroup of a group $G$. The number of left cosets of $H$ in $G$ is the index $(G:H)$ of $H$ in $G$.


<br>

## Theorem

Suppose $H$ and $K$ are subgroups of a group $G$ such that $K \le H \le G$, and suppose $(H:K)$ and $(G:H)$ are both finite. Then $(G:K)$ is finite, and $(G:K) = (G:H)(H:K)$.

